♪ [music] ♪
So far we have stores and we have users,
but we don't have any way to sort of
connect the two. And essentially when
we're creating a store, we need to be able
to set an author property on our stores
that is linked to one of the users in our
database. That's what's called a
relationship, and this is how we're going
to create a relationship in MongoDB. So
what we do is we're going to open up our
store model here, so store.js, and we're
going to scroll down to the bottom where
it says photo: String. And we're going to
add a new field called an author.
And the author's going to be an object.
The type of the author is not going to be
a String. It's not going to be a Number.
It's actually going to be an ObjectID.
Hmm, interesting. Well,
let's look at our users here, and we look
at our Documents here.
You're going to see that the ID of a
person is not a string, as we have here.
It's not a date, as we have here. It's not
a number. It's not anything else that we
could use. The ID is actually its own
type. And you'll see that it's a type
called an ObjectID. And that's what we
want to set the author to be because it's
going to be a relationship between the
store and the actual user.
So the type is going to be
mongoose.capital "S," schema. And then we
say ObjectID, so that's a custom type that
we have here. And then we say the ref is
going to be 'User'. Ah, so this is where
we tell MongoDB in our Schema that the
author is going to be referenced to our
User. Let's open that up real quick,
User.js. Let's scroll down here. You see
that the User is right here with a capital
"U," User, the model called that. So we're
telling it, "This is going to be an
object." But when somebody gives us an
ObjectID, we're going to store just the
object, and it's going to be
referenced to the actual User.
So we're going to be able to come back and
populate the author of each of our stores
without having to save all the data about
myself. We just simply have a pointer
arrow to another piece of data, another
document which is going to be Wes,
or whatever is on there. And then finally,
we can make this required.
Just say 'You must supply an author'. And
in our case, it's always going to be past
because we're going to do it as we save a
store. So we'll give that a Save now.
And when we create a store here, it
actually needs to have an author
associated with it. So let's open up our
storeController and let's go to our
createStore method. Here we go,
exports.createStore. And what we're going
to do before we even create the store,
we're just going to say req.body.author,
because that's the new field that we're
working with, =, now how do we get the
current user's ID? Well, req.user._id;.
And what that will do is it will take the
ID of the currently logged in user, and
it's going to put it into the author
field. And now when we actually create a
store, what's going to happen is that we
will be able to populate that data.
So give that a Save. Let's try and log in
here. We're going to create a new store
real quick. So just went ahead and created
our new store. Now if we look that up in
our MongoDB here, go to stores and we
scroll down all the way to the bottom.
You see "New Store." You'll see that the
author is ObjectID('58f4d5.
And if we go back to our users, you'll see
that wesbos is 58f4d5.
So the ObjectID is now our relationship
between the two. And what we're able to
do, if we go to store.pug, and we just do
a quick dump of the store somewhere.
So pre= h.dump(store).
You'll see that the author property comes
along with us, but it's just an actual ID.
Now if we were to do something called a
"populate," what it will do is it will
bring along all the information about that
author and put it in here.
It's going to replace it with the actual
author data. So let's find our
storeController. Let's go to where we get
a store, which is going to be
getStoreBySlug. And in here we're doing
Store.findOne. And if you do .populate on
the end, and you ask it to populate the
('author') field, just by adding that
populate on the end it should then say,
"Oh, this field needs to be populated so
let me go off and find the actual document
that's associated with this ID,
rather than just giving them the ID."
So if I refresh now, a-ha, there we go. We
have our author with an ID,
an email, a name. And then we also see the
PasswordToken stuff,
just because I requested a reset and it
actually didn't reset my password.
If I did, those would be deleted no
problem. So if you need to populate some
fields, you simply just say .populate on
the end and it will go off and find the
associated document for that person and
fill it in for you. So that's really nice
because we have one document here. We only
have to find one store,
but by calling populate it will fill in
the additional data that we need.
Good. So in this case I don't necessarily
need it and you should also be careful
that you're not accidentally leaking any
of your user sensitive data.
You'll see that the password, and the
hash, and the salt, none of that stuff is
automatically populated because it's
sensitive information. But sometimes you
do need the email. Other times you
shouldn't be printing it out.
So that's our first part right here.
The second part is we need to be able to
stop people from editing stores which they
do not own. So where do we have...let's go
to our...here's our editStore layout.
What we need to do right here is before
they can actually edit the store,
we need to confirm that they are the
actual owner. So what we'll do is maybe
right above this editStore we'll make a
new function here. We'll call it
confirmOwner. So say const confirmOwner =,
it's a function that takes in a store and
takes in a user. It's going to check if
the user and the store are the same thing.
So we'll say if there is
(!store.author.equals). So equals is a
method that comes along. Why? Because the
store.author is going to be an ObjectID.
And in order to compare an ObjectID with
an actual string you need to use the
.equals method that lives inside of it.
We check if it's equal to the user._id,
and in this case we're checking for not,
that's what the bang is. So if the store
author is not equal to the (user._id),
then we're just going to throw an
Error that says ('You must own a store in
order to edit it!');. So in this case, we
are going to be doing this not as
middleware because we actually need to
find the store before we can do a check.
So what we're doing here is we're making a
function called confirmOwner.
And before we actually render it out, but
after we have found the store,
which is why we have this TODO here. We're
just going to run that function,
confirmOwner, then we're going to pass it
the store. Then we're going to pass it the
current owner, or the current
user, which is req.user.
And what this will do is if they are the
owner, then it's going to just keep going.
If they are not, it's going to throw an
Error, which hopefully means that our
Error handling middleware will pick up
this actual error from happening.
We'll give it a refresh. And I'll go back
to my thing right here.
I'm going to find the only one that has an
author is this New Store right here.
And if I click on edit, it lets
me edit it no problem.
Let's go to one of these stores that
doesn't have an author, Coffee Shop.
It tells me...oh, in this case we actually
hit an error altogether because we sort of
have incomplete data because some stores
don't have authors because they were
created before we actually had some users.
So what we have to do now is go to our
actual MongoDB database, go to our stores,
and we have to delete everything that
doesn't have an actual author. So real
quick I'm just going to super speed delete
them all except for that
one that we just made.
You should do this, too.
Make sure you hit Refresh a couple times
on here to make sure that you only have
your new store. This may be solved by the
time you're viewing this,
but it does seem that if you delete things
it doesn't actually delete it sometimes.
A bit of a bug in the software right now.
So we go back to our home page.
You should just see one store. Now I'm
going to log out and I'm going to register
under a new email address.
So I'll say "Randy," and I'll say
"wesbos+randy@gmail.com." That's another
way that you can make a fake email address
here. The password is going to be "wes,
wes." Good. Register. I'm logged in.
I'm going to now create a new store, which
is going to be "Randy's Joint,
Good BBQ." Upload a nice little file here.
Now let's see, Randy's Donuts,
Inglewood, CA. Sounds like
a nice place. And Save.
Good. So we've created two joints now.
We've got Randy's Joints and the New
Store. I shouldn't be able to edit New
Store because I did not create that.
Again, I'm logged in as Randy right now.
So edit it, there we go.
"You must own a store to edit it!" Right?
And all we did there is throw the Error
and it shows us here. We could have also
had flashed an error and redirected them.
But in this case, I've just threw the
actual Error and it will bring us to that
error message right here. Otherwise, I
should be able to edit this one because I
made it. And there we go, I can see it.
So let's update our interface real quick.
I shouldn't be able to see this pencil
icon right here. I should only see the
pencil icon if I actually own the store.
So let's open up our storeCard .pug, and
you see that we have these three lines
right here where we have the edit. Right
above it we're going to say if,
and we're going to say store.author.equals
the (user._id), then we are going to go
ahead and show it. Now previously I said
store.author.id equals,
but in this case it's just
store.author.equals. Why is that? Well,
in this case we're not actually populating
the author because we don't need the
author in this case. All we need is just
the ID of the author.
So you generally only want to populate
fields if you actually need them for each
of the stores, otherwise in this case
we're just going to be seeing the ID.
And if that doesn't make a whole lot of
sense to you, you can just do a quick pre=
h.dump where we take the (store) and
you'll see. Or we can just show the
(store.author). And you'll see in this
case it's just an ID, it's not the actual
whole populated author because we didn't
need the author in this view.
So we're using
store.author.equals(user._id).
One problem, this works fine. See how I
see edit under Randy but not under this
one? If I were to open this in incognito
you'll see that we get an error.
And the problem is...well, let's take a
quick look at what it's telling us.
"Cannot read property '_id' of null." So
it's trying to find ID of something that
doesn't exist, user. And that's because
you're not logged in at this point.
This is just a regular person browsing
this website. So if there is no user,
there obviously is going
to be no ID property.
So what we need to do is check first if
there's a user, so if user &&
store.author. So if this is false it's not
going to try to evaluate this part.
So we first check if there's a user, and
if there is we're going to check if the
store author is equal to the user._id. So
we just need to make sure that you catch
little edge cases like that because logged
in and logged out states can be different.
Give that a refresh, there we go. This
person can't edit anything because they're
not logged in. But here,
I'm on Randy's Joint.
If I do a quick log out and log in, now
I'm able to edit this one because that's
the one I had previously made and I'm not
able to edit Randy's Joint because I am
not able to edit that. So that's very
basic permissions. What you could also do,
and I've done this previously, is you have
different levels. So a level 1 would be
able, like an Admin. A level 2 would be an
Editor. Or I do a level 10 and a level 20
just so I have some room in between in
case I want to make an in-between,
like an adminEditor where they have some
features and not.
And then what you could do at this point
is you could create additional
confirmOwner. You could say if the store
author equals (user._id),
or the user.level is > or < than 10. And
then you say, if they are like an admin,
then anyone can actually go ahead and edit
it. So you can really make that a lot more
complicated if you need to have admin and
different types of users.
But in this case we're just going to stick
to being able...the person that created it
is the only one that will be able to
actually edit it. Delete this.
So now that we've locked down both the
interface, being able to edit it,
as well as confirmed that the person is an
owner once they try to actually edit and
update an actual store, let's move onto
our next piece of this application,
which is working and building with an API.
♪ [music] ♪